content/md/bravas.md, before:


# brⱯvⱯs - Mini JavaScript-only CMS, v0.1_1

**brⱯvⱯs** is a purely client-side-JavaScript-driven Content Management System
(CMS) for small web sites. It doesn't require server-side processing whatsoever,
so it should run virtually under any HTTP server.

**brⱯvⱯs** may come handy for those feeling at ease with a console and a
plain-text editor. They can benefit from terse, fast and very lightweight
content management: edit, save and you're online.

Current project status is: _personal use only_. Mostly stable, but lacking 
some state-of-the-art features and broader browser compatibility
testing (any recent browser will very likely be supported, though; any older one
will as likely be not).

**brⱯvⱯs** is released under the [GPL v3 license](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html), 
so feel free to use it at will (but fairly).

## Features so far

* Simple management scheme: site map is modelled in a [JSON](https://www.json.org/)
    file.

* Simple content composition scheme: content-rich, complex pages may be
    formatted in HTML and embed JavaScript code; simple text pages (such as this one)
    may be simply MD-formatted. **brⱯvⱯs** will render both types seamlessly.

* Site browsing is helped with content tagging, date sorting, a dynamic page
    index and a site-wide menu.

* And since you probably know enough HTML, CSS and JavaScript for content
    management under **brⱯvⱯs**, you know as well how to tweak it to your needs.
    Hey, it's open source! Only a few files need to be editted to change the site
    appearance and common functionality; third party components can as easily
    be added. Broke anything? Just fire your browser inspection tool and
    debug.

## Features likely to be added anytime soon

* Multilingual support for content pages.

* Basic content search tool.

## Features wishfully to be added (but definitely not soon)

* Responsive style sheet.

* Local site map cache (in-browser storage) for large sites.

* Site-wide multilingual support.

## Getting brⱯvⱯs

**brⱯvⱯs** relies heavily on [Git](https://git-scm.com/) for project management; not only for 
its own source code, **brⱯvⱯs**' content managers can benefit from it too.

If you have some experience with Git, the following instructions should pose no difficulty to
you. If you have not, is a good chance to get to know Git :)

Wouldn't you? Well, you can always [download the latest release](https://github.com/a-zz/bravas/releases/latest)
directly.

Otherwise you just need a Git client. That wouldn't be hard to get for your OS of choice.

Getting  **brⱯvⱯs** is as easy as cloning the project repository from GitHub, namely: 
[https://github.com/a-zz/bravas](https://github.com/a-zz/bravas). Just place the cloned copy 
under your HTTP server root directory and your site's on.

If you want the latest stable version, just clone the master branch:

        ~$ git clone https://github.com/a-zz/bravas

Different versions are kept as separate branches; thus, if you want a specific version, you must
clone the related branch:

         ~# git clone --branch v0.1 https://github.com/a-zz/bravas
        
(refer to [https://github.com/a-zz/bravas/branches](https://github.com/a-zz/bravas/branches) 
for a list of available versions)

If you want a very specific release, you need to clone the related branch and checkout the proper
tag afterwards:

        ~$ git clone --branch v0.1 https://github.com/a-zz/bravas
        ~$ cd bravas
        ~/bravas$ git checkout tags/v0.1_rc1
        ~/bravas$ cd ..

(refer to [https://github.com/a-zz/bravas/releases](https://github.com/a-zz/bravas/branches) 
for a list of available versions)        
        
Unless you're willing to contribute to **brⱯvⱯs**, or getting project updates at the cost of dealing
with merges and conflicts (not recommended for production sites), you should unlink the source 
repository just afterwards:

        ~$ cd bravas
        ~/bravas$ git remote rm origin
        
In any clase, git cloning gives you -per design- a fully functional (although local) Git repository, so you can
readily benefit from Git version control in your site.

If you want to sync your local repository with a remote Git server (GitHub itself would be a
nice choice), just add a _remote_ for your repository and you're done:

        ~/bravas$ git remote add origin your://server.repo/url
    
You may even set up a [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/) repository as remote and your site
would be online inmmediately, for good and for free. In a nutshell:

1. Create a GitHub account, e.g. _i-am-the walrus_

2. Sign in and create a repository named i-am-the walrus.github.io

3. Link it your local **brⱯvⱯs** Git repository:

        ~/bravas$ git remote add origin https://github.com/i-am-the-walrus/i-am-the-walrus.github.io.git
        
4. _Push_ your local repository into the remote:

        ~/bravas$ git push 

Your site would almost immediately be online at https://i-am-the-walrus.github.io . It works like a charm,
but you should check the GitHub Pages manual anyway.
        
## Working with brⱯvⱯs

Once you've got your local copy, just take a look at [js/metadata.readme](js/metadata.readme); it 
should be quite straightforward. The sample (and fully functional) js/metadata.json should be a good 
reference too. Enjoy!

## Acknowledgements
The only third party product included so far is [remarkable.js](https://github.com/jonschlinkert/remarkable) by
[Jon Schlinkert](https://github.com/jonschlinkert), so cheers to him!

I also must thank Git's and GitHub's creators and maintainers, two great tools for open source, colaborative development.

Commit message:

Engine update to latest release. Some content migrated accordingly.

content/md/bravas.md, after:


# brⱯvⱯs - Mini JavaScript-only CMS

**brⱯvⱯs** is a purely client-side-JavaScript-driven Content Management System
(CMS) for small web sites. It doesn't require server-side processing whatsoever,
so it should run virtually under any HTTP server.

**brⱯvⱯs** may come handy for those feeling at ease with a console and a
plain-text editor. They can benefit from terse, fast and very lightweight
content management: edit, save and you're online.

//TOC//

## Features

### So far

* Simple management scheme: site map is modelled in a [JSON](https://www.json.org/)
    file.

* Simple content composition scheme: content-rich, complex pages may be
    formatted in HTML and embed JavaScript code; simple text pages (such as this one)
    may be simply MD-formatted. **brⱯvⱯs** will render both types seamlessly.

* Site browsing is helped with content tagging, date sorting, a dynamic page
    index and a site-wide menu.

* And since you probably know enough HTML, CSS and JavaScript for content
    management under **brⱯvⱯs**, you know as well how to tweak it to your needs.
    Hey, it's open source! Only a few files need to be editted to change the site
    appearance and common functionality; third party components can as easily
    be added. Broke anything? Just fire your browser inspection tool and
    debug.

### Features likely to be added anytime soon

* Multilingual support for content pages.

* Basic content search tool.

### Features wishfully to be added (but definitely not soon)

* Responsive style sheet.

* Local site map cache (in-browser storage) for large sites.

* Site-wide multilingual support.

## Getting brⱯvⱯs

**brⱯvⱯs** relies heavily on [Git](https://git-scm.com/) for project management; not only for 
its own source code, **brⱯvⱯs**' content managers can benefit from it too.

If you have some experience with Git, the following instructions should pose no difficulty to
you. If you have not, is a good chance to get to know Git :)

Wouldn't you? Well, you can always [download the latest release](https://github.com/a-zz/bravas/releases/latest)
directly.

Otherwise you just need a Git client. That wouldn't be hard to get for your OS of choice.

Getting  **brⱯvⱯs** is as easy as cloning the project repository from GitHub, namely: 
[https://github.com/a-zz/bravas](https://github.com/a-zz/bravas). Just place the cloned copy 
under your HTTP server root directory and your site's on.

If you want the latest stable version, just clone the master branch:

        ~$ git clone https://github.com/a-zz/bravas

Different versions are kept as separate branches; thus, if you want a specific version, you must
clone the related branch:

         ~# git clone --branch v0.1 https://github.com/a-zz/bravas
        
(refer to [https://github.com/a-zz/bravas/branches](https://github.com/a-zz/bravas/branches) 
for a list of available versions)

If you want a very specific release, you need to clone the related branch and checkout the proper
tag afterwards:

        ~$ git clone --branch v0.1 https://github.com/a-zz/bravas
        ~$ cd bravas
        ~/bravas$ git checkout tags/v0.1_rc1
        ~/bravas$ cd ..

(refer to [https://github.com/a-zz/bravas/releases](https://github.com/a-zz/bravas/branches) 
for a list of available versions)        
        
Unless you're willing to contribute to **brⱯvⱯs**, or getting project updates at the cost of dealing
with merges and conflicts (not recommended for production sites), you should unlink the source 
repository just afterwards:

        ~$ cd bravas
        ~/bravas$ git remote rm origin
        
In any clase, git cloning gives you -per design- a fully functional (although local) Git repository, so you can
readily benefit from Git version control in your site.

If you want to sync your local repository with a remote Git server (GitHub itself would be a
nice choice), just add a _remote_ for your repository and you're done:

        ~/bravas$ git remote add origin your://server.repo/url
    
You may even set up a [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/) repository as remote and your site
would be online inmmediately, for good and for free. In a nutshell:

1. Create a GitHub account, e.g. _i-am-the walrus_

2. Sign in and create a repository named i-am-the walrus.github.io

3. Link it your local **brⱯvⱯs** Git repository:

        ~/bravas$ git remote add origin https://github.com/i-am-the-walrus/i-am-the-walrus.github.io.git
        
4. _Push_ your local repository into the remote:

        ~/bravas$ git push 

Your site would almost immediately be online at https://i-am-the-walrus.github.io . It works like a charm,
but you should check the GitHub Pages manual anyway.
        
## Working with brⱯvⱯs

Once you've got your local copy, just take a look at [js/metadata.readme](js/metadata.readme); it 
should be quite straightforward. The sample (and fully functional) js/metadata.json should be a good 
reference too. Enjoy!

## Project status and license

Current project status is: _personal use only_. Mostly stable, but lacking 
some state-of-the-art features and broader browser compatibility
testing (any recent browser will very likely be supported, though; any older one
will as likely be not).

Latest production relase is [v0.1_1](https://github.com/a-zz/bravas/tree/v0.1). 
Latest release candidate is [v0.2_rc1](https://github.com/a-zz/bravas/releases/tag/v0.2_rc1).

**brⱯvⱯs** is released under the [GPL v3 license](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html), 
so feel free to use it at will (but fairly).

## Acknowledgements
The only third party product included so far is [remarkable.js](https://github.com/jonschlinkert/remarkable) by
[Jon Schlinkert](https://github.com/jonschlinkert), so cheers to him!

I also must thank Git's and GitHub's creators and maintainers, two great tools for open source, colaborative development.
